CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Welcome to Sprocket and the `wdl` crates!

Community contributions rock and we are psyched you're reading this document!

## Quick links

- Bug reports go [here][issues]
- Feature requests are welcome and go [here](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/sprocket/discussions/categories/feature-requests)
- Lint rule proposals go [here](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/sprocket/discussions/categories/rule-proposals)

## How can I start contributing?

### I don't want to write code, can I still contribute?

Sure!

You can always open a [discussion](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/sprocket/discussions/categories/rule-proposals)
with a proposal for a new lint rule or other enhancement as well contributing
to any open discussions. Ensure that you provide a clear and concise title and
description of the desired addition. For lint rules in particular, WDL examples
and/or links to the relevant portion of the WDL spec are extremely useful.

We also welcome bug reports. If you discover a flaw in our codebase, please
review the list of open issues to ensure that it is not a duplicate. Please
also attempt to debug the issue locally and ensure that it is not a
configuration issue. Once you have done both, please file a new issue providing
the relevant information in the issue. Please provide the exact steps to
reproduce the problem, specific example(s) that demonstrate the steps, and the
behavior you observe as well as the behavior you expected to observe. For
terminal-based use cases, a copy and paste of the command and error log (please
use markdown formatting appropriately) is preferred. For interactive use cases
(such as the VSCode extension), screenshots and/or GIFs are welcome ways to
provide additional information to maintainers.

We also appreciate feedback on our documentation. Feel free to look over any of
our `*.md` files and note any issues you find. You can also explore our lint
rule documentation by [installing `sprocket`](https://sprocket.bio/installation.html)
and reading the output of `sprocket explain`. (n.b.: we hope to replace
`sprocket explain` with a website where each rule will have a dedicated page,
but that has not been realized yet).

The maintainers reserve the right to close issues and discussions as deemed
necessary as well as to delete comments and interactions within the repository.

### Your first code contribution

We encourage you to reach out to the core team prior to writing up a pull
request. **This is to ensure there isn't any wasted effort or duplication of
work caused by miscommunication. Failure to do so may result in the rejection
of the pull request.** You can get in touch with us via the [issues][issues] or
hop over to the [discussions](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/sprocket/discussions).
We are also active on the [openwdl Slack workspace](https://openwdl.slack.com).
(Discussion about this repo best belongs in the #sprocket channel 😃)

We encourage contributors to comment on open issues that they intend to work on
to help avoid duplication of effort. If multiple individuals are interested in
solving the same issue, we recommend reaching out to one another to gauge if
there is potential for a collaboration.

That being said, we will not assign issues to external contributors, and
commenting on an issue does not guarantee exclusive rights to work on that
issue. If multiple PRs are received for the same issue, the PR that (a) most
thoroughly addresses the problem being solved and (b) has the best
implementation by judgement of the St. Jude Rust Labs team will be accepted in
favor of the other submitted PRs.

### Review Policy

Our pull request template has an extensive checklist that must be completed
prior to review. Our policy is that any PRs submitted with an incomplete
checklist will not be reviewed. Part of this checklist includes ensuring that
our CI checks pass. Additional guidance for satisfying the CI checks can be
[found below](#the-ci-has-turned-red-how-do-i-make-it-green-again-ci-green).

Note that the maintainers reserve the right to close any submission without
review for any reason.

## FAQs

### Can I use Artificial Intelligence (AI)?

We have found that AI, while helpful in some contexts, causes more confusion
and work for all parties involved when interacting with a large, complex
codebase such as the `wdl` family of crates. To that end, no PRs including
AI-generated content—whether that be generated code, generated documentation,
generated discussion via GitHub comments, or any other AI generated
content—will be accepted from external contributors. Any submissions deemed to
be AI-generated from external contributors will be closed without review.

### How do I set up Rust?

[The official Rust docs guide](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install).

### What IDE should I use?

Most of this team uses VScode with the `rust-analyzer` extension but that
preference is not hardcoded anywhere. Feel free to use any IDE you want!

### What's a good first issue?

We will try to keep a handful of [issues][issues] marked `good first issue`
open and ready for new contributors.

### I see a commit or merged PR already referencing this issue, but it is still open?

In addition to the history of _this_ git repository, we included the git history from
the now archived [`wdl` repository](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/wdl) when we
consolidated them. This unfortunately confuses the GitHub interface, which
interprets historic commits from the older repository as referencing new issues
created here, in the `sprocket` repository.

These old commits and closed PRs can usually be ignored, but feel free to leave a
comment to clarify if you aren't sure.

### What's the difference between `error`, `warning`, and `note`?

- an `error` is emitted when the source WDL is incorrect or invalid in some way
    - errors should not be emitted by `wdl-lint`
- a `warning` is emitted when the source WDL is confusing, problematic,
  error-prone, etc. but not invalid or incorrect
- a `note` is emitted in all other cases and is mostly used for issues of style or conformity

### What is gauntlet?

[Gauntlet](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/sprocket/tree/main/crates/gauntlet)
is the main driver of our CI. Take a look at the file [`Gauntlet.toml`](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/sprocket/blob/main/crates/gauntlet/Gauntlet.toml).
The entries at the top are all GitHub repositories of WDL code. The remaining
entries are diagnostics emitted while analyzing those repositories. These
should remain relatively static between PRs, and any change in emitted
diagnostics should be reviewed carefully.

In order to turn the Gauntlet CI green, run `cargo run --release -p gauntlet --bin gauntlet
-- --bless`. The `--bless` flag will save any changes to the `Gauntlet.toml`
file. This should then be committed and included in your PR.

### What is arena?

Arena is the alternate run mode of `gauntlet`. [`Arena.toml`](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/sprocket/blob/main/crates/gunatlet/Arena.toml)
is very similar to `Gauntlet.toml`, except it has fewer repository entries and
instead of analysis diagnostics it contains only lint diagnostics (which are
not included in `Gauntlet.toml`).

In order to turn the Arena CI green, run `cargo run --release -p gauntlet --bin gauntlet --
--arena --bless`. The `--bless` flag (in conjunction with the `--arena` flag)
will save any changes to the `Arena.toml` file. This should then be committed
and included in your PR.

### The CI has turned red. How do I make it green again?

There are a handful of reasons the CI may have turned red. Try the following
fixes:

- `cargo +nightly fmt` to format your Rust code
- `cargo clippy --all-features` and then fix any warnings emitted
- `BLESS=1 cargo test --all-features` to "bless" any test changes
    - Please review any changes this causes to make sure they seem right!
- `cargo run --release -p gauntlet --bin gauntlet -- --bless`
    - see the `What is gauntlet?` question for more information
- `cargo run --release -p gauntlet --bin gauntlet -- --bless --arena`
    - see the `What is arena?` question for more information
- `rustup update` to update your local toolchains

### What's the general workflow for writing a new lint rule?

1. create a `wdl-lint/src/rules/<>.rs` file and tinker until you are calling
  `exceptable_add()` in some case
    - review the existing rules in `wdl-lint/src/rules/` for guidance on this
2. write a `wdl-lint/tests/lints/<>/source.wdl` that has cases that should and
  should not trigger the above call to `exceptable_add()`
3. run `BLESS=1 cargo test -p wdl-lint --all-features` to generate a `source.errors`
    - this file should not be edited by hand
4. review `source.errors` to see if it matches our expectations
    - this isn't exactly true, but I conceptualize `source.errors` as the
      output if a user ran a `lint` command on `source.wdl`
    - while reviewing, ask yourself if the printed diagnostics are clear and
      informative
5. consider which nodes should be "exceptable" for this rule
    - See "[How should I decide which nodes to add to `exceptable_nodes()`?](#how-should-i-decide-which-nodes-to-add-to-exceptable_nodes)"
      for more information on this process
6. consider if your new rule relates to existing ones and implement the `related_rules()` method accordingly.
    - See "[How should i decide which rules to link using related_rules()?](#how-should-i-decide-which-rules-to-link-using-related_rules)"
      for detailed guidance.
7. repeat

### Can you explain how rules use `exceptable_nodes()` and `exceptable_add()`?

Every lint rule has an ID which can be used in lint directives (comments
beginning with `#@ except:`) to prevent them from emitting diagnostics for
portions of a WDL document. Rules "excepted" during the preamble (comments
which are before the version statement) will be turned off for the entire
document; otherwise, lint directives will shut off a rule while processing the
children of whatever node it comes before, but only if that node is in the
rule's `exceptable_nodes()` list. `exceptable_add()` will check all the
ancestors of `element` for nodes that match the `exceptable_nodes()` list and
see if they have a lint directive disabling the current rule; if so, the
diagnostic will not be added to the validation output.

### How should I decide which nodes to add to `exceptable_nodes()`?

Returning `None` from `exceptable_nodes()` will enable lint directives to work
anywhere in the document. This should be used sparingly, and is generally not
the desired behavior. The most common case for returning `None` is if the lint
rule pertains to "trivia" (whitespace and comments) which are permitted to
appear almost anywhere in a WDL document.

_Every_ rule that returns `Some(_)` for `exceptable_nodes()` should include
`SyntaxKind::VersionStatementNode` as the first entry. This is to ensure the
rule can be disabled for an entire document.

The other `SyntaxKind` nodes that should be returned should be _intuitive_,
_minimal_, and _comprehensive_.

Intuitive: users shouldn't need to know anything about the internal CST or AST
structure to determine where to add a lint directive. However, we can
reasonably expect users to intuit the nested structure of a WDL document. There
are top level items (workflow, task, and struct definitions), and then each of
those top level items has a variety of sections contained within, which in turn
may have further items contained within them. Excepting a rule somewhere
"higher" in the nested structure will disable the rule for everything "beneath".

Minimal: We want to have as few exceptable nodes as possible for each rule,
while still enabling the most intuitive locations to be excepted. If two nodes
would cover the same set of potential diagnostics, _always_ prefer the more
specific node. e.g. for a rule relating to `input` sections, the
`InputSectionNode`, `TaskDefinitionNode`, and `WorkflowDefinitionNode` would
all cover the exact same set of diagnostics (as there can be at most one input
section for each task or workflow definition); so we would prefer to have
`InputSectionNode` returned by `exceptable_nodes()` rather than either
`TaskDefinitionNode` or `WorkflowDefinitionNode`.

Comprehensive: Try to cover as many _unique_ sets of potential diagnostics as
possible with the nodes returned by `exceptable_nodes()`. An individual
diagnostic should be able to targeted by a lint directive, and so should any
unique group of diagnostics.

### How should I decide which rules to link using `related_rules()`?

When deciding which rules should link to which other rules, please consider
these criteria:

- If diagnostic `X` is likely to co-occur with diagnostic `Y` within the same
  lint pass (addressing them often happens together):
    - rule `X` should implement `related_rules` to include `Y`'s ID, and rule
      `Y` should implement it to include `X`'s ID.
- If correcting diagnostic `X` naively (without considering other rules) is
  likely to result in diagnostic `Y` being emitted in a subsequent lint pass:
    - rule `X` should implement `related_rules` to include `Y`'s ID, but rule
      `Y` should _not_ link back to rule `X` in this case, as the user fixing
      `Y` isn't necessarily led back to the context of `X`.

## Further reading

* `exceptable_add()` defined [here](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/sprocket/blob/129fe020c78ecdac7dc3ad1f1cec686eb3634117/crates/wdl-analysis/src/validation.rs#L44).
* See [here](https://docs.rs/wdl/latest/wdl/grammar/type.SyntaxNode.html) for
  the `SyntaxNode` docs.
* The PR which introduced `exceptable_nodes()` and `exceptable_add()` is [#162](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/wdl/pull/162).
* That PR fixed issue [#135](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/wdl/issues/135)
* The PR which introduced `related_rules()` is [#371](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/wdl/pull/371)

[issues]: https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/sprocket/issues

Commit message:

wip: add `sprocket check` benches, clean up

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Welcome to Sprocket and the `wdl` crates!

Community contributions rock and we are psyched you're reading this document!

## Quick links

- Bug reports go [here][issues]
- Feature requests are welcome and go [here](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/sprocket/discussions/categories/feature-requests)
- Lint rule proposals go [here](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/sprocket/discussions/categories/rule-proposals)

## How can I start contributing?

### I don't want to write code, can I still contribute?

Sure!

You can always open a [discussion](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/sprocket/discussions/categories/rule-proposals)
with a proposal for a new lint rule or other enhancement as well contributing
to any open discussions. Ensure that you provide a clear and concise title and
description of the desired addition. For lint rules in particular, WDL examples
and/or links to the relevant portion of the WDL spec are extremely useful.

We also welcome bug reports. If you discover a flaw in our codebase, please
review the list of open issues to ensure that it is not a duplicate. Please
also attempt to debug the issue locally and ensure that it is not a
configuration issue. Once you have done both, please file a new issue providing
the relevant information in the issue. Please provide the exact steps to
reproduce the problem, specific example(s) that demonstrate the steps, and the
behavior you observe as well as the behavior you expected to observe. For
terminal-based use cases, a copy and paste of the command and error log (please
use markdown formatting appropriately) is preferred. For interactive use cases
(such as the VSCode extension), screenshots and/or GIFs are welcome ways to
provide additional information to maintainers.

We also appreciate feedback on our documentation. Feel free to look over any of
our `*.md` files and note any issues you find. You can also explore our lint
rule documentation by [installing `sprocket`](https://sprocket.bio/installation.html)
and reading the output of `sprocket explain`. (n.b.: we hope to replace
`sprocket explain` with a website where each rule will have a dedicated page,
but that has not been realized yet).

The maintainers reserve the right to close issues and discussions as deemed
necessary as well as to delete comments and interactions within the repository.

### Your first code contribution

We encourage you to reach out to the core team prior to writing up a pull
request. **This is to ensure there isn't any wasted effort or duplication of
work caused by miscommunication. Failure to do so may result in the rejection
of the pull request.** You can get in touch with us via the [issues][issues] or
hop over to the [discussions](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/sprocket/discussions).
We are also active on the [openwdl Slack workspace](https://openwdl.slack.com).
(Discussion about this repo best belongs in the #sprocket channel 😃)

We encourage contributors to comment on open issues that they intend to work on
to help avoid duplication of effort. If multiple individuals are interested in
solving the same issue, we recommend reaching out to one another to gauge if
there is potential for a collaboration.

That being said, we will not assign issues to external contributors, and
commenting on an issue does not guarantee exclusive rights to work on that
issue. If multiple PRs are received for the same issue, the PR that (a) most
thoroughly addresses the problem being solved and (b) has the best
implementation by judgement of the St. Jude Rust Labs team will be accepted in
favor of the other submitted PRs.

### Review Policy

Our pull request template has an extensive checklist that must be completed
prior to review. Our policy is that any PRs submitted with an incomplete
checklist will not be reviewed. Part of this checklist includes ensuring that
our CI checks pass. Additional guidance for satisfying the CI checks can be
[found below](#the-ci-has-turned-red-how-do-i-make-it-green-again-ci-green).

Note that the maintainers reserve the right to close any submission without
review for any reason.

## FAQs

### Can I use Artificial Intelligence (AI)?

We have found that AI, while helpful in some contexts, causes more confusion
and work for all parties involved when interacting with a large, complex
codebase such as the `wdl` family of crates. To that end, no PRs including
AI-generated content—whether that be generated code, generated documentation,
generated discussion via GitHub comments, or any other AI generated
content—will be accepted from external contributors. Any submissions deemed to
be AI-generated from external contributors will be closed without review.

### How do I set up Rust?

[The official Rust docs guide](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install).

### What IDE should I use?

Most of this team uses VScode with the `rust-analyzer` extension but that
preference is not hardcoded anywhere. Feel free to use any IDE you want!

### What's a good first issue?

We will try to keep a handful of [issues][issues] marked `good first issue`
open and ready for new contributors.

### I see a commit or merged PR already referencing this issue, but it is still open?

In addition to the history of _this_ git repository, we included the git history from
the now archived [`wdl` repository](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/wdl) when we
consolidated them. This unfortunately confuses the GitHub interface, which
interprets historic commits from the older repository as referencing new issues
created here, in the `sprocket` repository.

These old commits and closed PRs can usually be ignored, but feel free to leave a
comment to clarify if you aren't sure.

### What's the difference between `error`, `warning`, and `note`?

- an `error` is emitted when the source WDL is incorrect or invalid in some way
    - errors should not be emitted by `wdl-lint`
- a `warning` is emitted when the source WDL is confusing, problematic,
  error-prone, etc. but not invalid or incorrect
- a `note` is emitted in all other cases and is mostly used for issues of style or conformity

### What is gauntlet?

[Gauntlet](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/sprocket/tree/main/crates/gauntlet)
is the main driver of our CI. Take a look at the file [`Gauntlet.toml`](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/sprocket/blob/main/crates/gauntlet/Gauntlet.toml).
The entries at the top are all GitHub repositories of WDL code. The remaining
entries are diagnostics emitted while analyzing those repositories. These
should remain relatively static between PRs, and any change in emitted
diagnostics should be reviewed carefully.

In order to turn the Gauntlet CI green, run `cargo run --release -p gauntlet --bin gauntlet
-- --bless`. The `--bless` flag will save any changes to the `Gauntlet.toml`
file. This should then be committed and included in your PR.

### What is arena?

Arena is the alternate run mode of `gauntlet`. [`Arena.toml`](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/sprocket/blob/main/crates/gunatlet/Arena.toml)
is very similar to `Gauntlet.toml`, except it has fewer repository entries and
instead of analysis diagnostics it contains only lint diagnostics (which are
not included in `Gauntlet.toml`).

In order to turn the Arena CI green, run `cargo run --release -p gauntlet --bin gauntlet --
--arena --bless`. The `--bless` flag (in conjunction with the `--arena` flag)
will save any changes to the `Arena.toml` file. This should then be committed
and included in your PR.

### The CI has turned red. How do I make it green again?

There are a handful of reasons the CI may have turned red. Try the following
fixes:

- `cargo +nightly fmt` to format your Rust code
- `cargo clippy --all-features` and then fix any warnings emitted
- `BLESS=1 cargo test --all-features` to "bless" any test changes
    - Please review any changes this causes to make sure they seem right!
- `cargo run --release -p gauntlet --bin gauntlet -- --bless`
    - see the `What is gauntlet?` question for more information
- `cargo run --release -p gauntlet --bin gauntlet -- --bless --arena`
    - see the `What is arena?` question for more information
- `rustup update` to update your local toolchains

### What's the general workflow for writing a new lint rule?

1. create a `wdl-lint/src/rules/<>.rs` file and tinker until you are calling
  `exceptable_add()` in some case
    - review the existing rules in `wdl-lint/src/rules/` for guidance on this
2. write a `wdl-lint/tests/lints/<>/source.wdl` that has cases that should and
  should not trigger the above call to `exceptable_add()`
3. run `BLESS=1 cargo test -p wdl-lint --all-features` to generate a `source.errors`
    - this file should not be edited by hand
4. review `source.errors` to see if it matches our expectations
    - this isn't exactly true, but I conceptualize `source.errors` as the
      output if a user ran a `lint` command on `source.wdl`
    - while reviewing, ask yourself if the printed diagnostics are clear and
      informative
5. consider which nodes should be "exceptable" for this rule
    - See "[How should I decide which nodes to add to `exceptable_nodes()`?](#how-should-i-decide-which-nodes-to-add-to-exceptable_nodes)"
      for more information on this process
6. consider if your new rule relates to existing ones and implement the `related_rules()` method accordingly.
    - See "[How should i decide which rules to link using related_rules()?](#how-should-i-decide-which-rules-to-link-using-related_rules)"
      for detailed guidance.
7. repeat

### Can you explain how rules use `exceptable_nodes()` and `exceptable_add()`?

Every lint rule has an ID which can be used in lint directives (comments
beginning with `#@ except:`) to prevent them from emitting diagnostics for
portions of a WDL document. Rules "excepted" during the preamble (comments
which are before the version statement) will be turned off for the entire
document; otherwise, lint directives will shut off a rule while processing the
children of whatever node it comes before, but only if that node is in the
rule's `exceptable_nodes()` list. `exceptable_add()` will check all the
ancestors of `element` for nodes that match the `exceptable_nodes()` list and
see if they have a lint directive disabling the current rule; if so, the
diagnostic will not be added to the validation output.

### How should I decide which nodes to add to `exceptable_nodes()`?

Returning `None` from `exceptable_nodes()` will enable lint directives to work
anywhere in the document. This should be used sparingly, and is generally not
the desired behavior. The most common case for returning `None` is if the lint
rule pertains to "trivia" (whitespace and comments) which are permitted to
appear almost anywhere in a WDL document.

_Every_ rule that returns `Some(_)` for `exceptable_nodes()` should include
`SyntaxKind::VersionStatementNode` as the first entry. This is to ensure the
rule can be disabled for an entire document.

The other `SyntaxKind` nodes that should be returned should be _intuitive_,
_minimal_, and _comprehensive_.

Intuitive: users shouldn't need to know anything about the internal CST or AST
structure to determine where to add a lint directive. However, we can
reasonably expect users to intuit the nested structure of a WDL document. There
are top level items (workflow, task, and struct definitions), and then each of
those top level items has a variety of sections contained within, which in turn
may have further items contained within them. Excepting a rule somewhere
"higher" in the nested structure will disable the rule for everything "beneath".

Minimal: We want to have as few exceptable nodes as possible for each rule,
while still enabling the most intuitive locations to be excepted. If two nodes
would cover the same set of potential diagnostics, _always_ prefer the more
specific node. e.g. for a rule relating to `input` sections, the
`InputSectionNode`, `TaskDefinitionNode`, and `WorkflowDefinitionNode` would
all cover the exact same set of diagnostics (as there can be at most one input
section for each task or workflow definition); so we would prefer to have
`InputSectionNode` returned by `exceptable_nodes()` rather than either
`TaskDefinitionNode` or `WorkflowDefinitionNode`.

Comprehensive: Try to cover as many _unique_ sets of potential diagnostics as
possible with the nodes returned by `exceptable_nodes()`. An individual
diagnostic should be able to targeted by a lint directive, and so should any
unique group of diagnostics.

### How should I decide which rules to link using `related_rules()`?

When deciding which rules should link to which other rules, please consider
these criteria:

- If diagnostic `X` is likely to co-occur with diagnostic `Y` within the same
  lint pass (addressing them often happens together):
    - rule `X` should implement `related_rules` to include `Y`'s ID, and rule
      `Y` should implement it to include `X`'s ID.
- If correcting diagnostic `X` naively (without considering other rules) is
  likely to result in diagnostic `Y` being emitted in a subsequent lint pass:
    - rule `X` should implement `related_rules` to include `Y`'s ID, but rule
      `Y` should _not_ link back to rule `X` in this case, as the user fixing
      `Y` isn't necessarily led back to the context of `X`.

## Benchmarking and performance

The start of a microbenchmarking suite exists in `/benches/bench.rs` and its
modules; its behavior and suggested usage is described in more detail in its
documentation.

At `DEBUG` verbosity, the `sprocket` CLI will output the peak memory usage at
the end of each execution.

## Further reading

* `exceptable_add()` defined [here](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/sprocket/blob/129fe020c78ecdac7dc3ad1f1cec686eb3634117/crates/wdl-analysis/src/validation.rs#L44).
* See [here](https://docs.rs/wdl/latest/wdl/grammar/type.SyntaxNode.html) for
  the `SyntaxNode` docs.
* The PR which introduced `exceptable_nodes()` and `exceptable_add()` is [#162](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/wdl/pull/162).
* That PR fixed issue [#135](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/wdl/issues/135)
* The PR which introduced `related_rules()` is [#371](https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/wdl/pull/371)

[issues]: https://github.com/stjude-rust-labs/sprocket/issues
